This video is brought to you by Squarespace, whether it's your new professional,
just a lifelong passion. Start your journey to website glory with Squarespace,
track out their amazing all in one platform through the link in the description
below more on them in just a bit
Hottest hell March 13th, 19 esteemed mortal of new Orleans.
They have never caught me and they never will.
They have never seen me for I'm invisible.
Even as the ether that surrounds your earth, I'm not a human being,
but a spirit and a demon from the hottest hell I am.
What you Orleans and your foolish police call the ax. Man. When I see third,
I shall come and claim a, the victims. I alone know whom they shall be.
I shall leave no clue,
except my bloody acts smeared with blood and brains of he,
whom I have sent below to keep me company undoubtedly, you IANS.
Think of me as a most horrible murderer, which I am,
but I could be much worse if I wanted to.
If I wished I could pay a visit to a city every night at will,
I could slay thousands of your best citizens and the worst for I'm in close
relationship with the angel of death, those art words,
purported to be from new Orleans,
most notorious and most mysterious serial killer.
A man who broke its people's homes at night and butchered them where they slept
the man who made a demo,
unlike any other killer in history to have the entire city filled with the
swinging sounds of jazz music or risk incurring his murderous wrath.
The man who came to be known as the Axman of new Orleans.
The terror started on the, of may the 23rd, 1918.
As the city of new Orleans slept an intruder broke into the house of Joseph and
Catherine Magio on the corner of Magnolia street and upper line.
He found an ax in the garden, went inside the bedroom and butchered,
both husband and wife in their sleep.
Joseph Magio was probably targeted first since he was still in bed.
When the crime was discovered while Catherine's body lay on the floor,
the pool of blood indicating that she never woken during the attack and tried to
make a run for it. Although it proved to be in vain. The couple had no children,
although Joseph's younger brother,
Andrew Magio lived with them and he was in the next room,
sleeping off a late drinking session when they were killed.
It wasn't until the next morning around 5:00 AM that Andrew Magio woke up until
MOS coming from the adjoining room. He banged on all,
but he did not receive a reply. So he left the house and ran to another sibling.
Jake Magio who lived a block away and told him what had happened together.
They went to pick up the fourth Magio brother Salvador,
and the trio return to the house about half an hour later,
and finally entered the bedroom before the lay Gastly site one,
which was described in the afternoon. Addition of that day,
the new Orleans states blind Agon across the bed with his feet,
touching the floor was the body of Joseph Magio on the floor,
alongside the bed and resting across the feet of her.
Husband's lay the dead body of his wife.
The floors and bed were smeared with blood to the man was not yet dead.
Jake Magio someone, the police while Andrew telephone,
the charity hospital ambulance,
he died shortly after the arrival of the interns from the hospital.
The authorities arrived on the scene to investigate the double homicide
footprint suggested that the killer hopped to the fence,
which surrounded the house and then used a screw driver to pry out a panel from
the door and crawled through it. In sight, the murder weapon,
he used appeared to be an ax,
which he found in the Maggio's backyard and he left it in the bedroom.
After he was done. A first police suspected that the crime was a robbery,
which turned to homicides,
but there were several clues that did not point in that direction. For starters,
the killer left the jewelry behind Joseph Magio had a safe,
which was indeed found open, but it showed no signs of forced entry.
The grocery had recently deposited a large sum into the bank around $650.
So it may be that the safe was already open because it was empty. Otherwise,
the only way the killer would've gotten it open without leaving any marks was if
he knew the combination,
This led the police to consider the possibility of it being an inside job with
the younger brother being involved somehow after all,
this was only the first attack and authorities had no way of knowing.
It was the beginning of a crime spree and the presence of Andrew Magio did raise
a lot of questions. How come he didn't hear any noises during the attack,
but was later woken up by the moons,
coming from the bedroom and speaking of the bedroom,
why didn't he enter it immediately?
And instead left to collect his other brothers.
It could have been that he panicked or that he was scared,
but it could also have been that he wanted witnesses since he knew what he was
going to find in there. And why did the killer spare him anyway?
Was it that he did not know that Andrew Magio was also in the house or was it
because he himself was doing the killing?
These suspicions were enough to turn the younger brother into the chief suspect.
He was arrested later that day and continued investigations uncovered even more
evidence that incriminated him in the backyard of Magio home.
Police found the screwdriver used to gain entry to the house in the next yard.
They found a pair of blood soaked socks and a bloody razor.
Despite the ax man's Monica. In this particular case,
the razor turned out to be the main murder weapon as the killer used it to cut
the throats of Joseph and Catherine Magio only afterwards did he used the ax on
them,
maybe as the police suspected at the time in an attempt hide the initial wounds,
the reason they found this suspicious was because Andrew Magio was a barber and
the razor was just like the ones he used at work.
The authorities thought this was going to be a straightforward case.
Andrew Magio was in custody and they fully expected to bring charges against
him. However, the case soon started falling apart.
The razor turns out not to belong to the barber.
And even though his story was at fishy, there was no evidence to contradict it.
He was released a few days after the killing and eventually the police focused
their efforts in another direction with the police superintendent saying that
the case had taken a peculiar turn and will become more interesting from the
standpoint of the investigators.
The next attack occurred on June the 27th, 1918,
when the Axman targeted Louis Baumer and Harriet Lowe sometimes identified as
Anna low while they were sleeping in the back of his grocery shop at the corner
of do OI.
And Laha like Joseph Magio Baumer was an Italian shopkeeper showing that the
killer may have had a tight when it came to choosing his victims.
The couple was discovered in the early hours of the morning by John Zanker,
a bakery van driver who was making his routine delivery.
When nobody met him to open the sharp,
he went into the bedroom in the back and found Baumer and Lowe sitting in
puddles of blood,
but still alive that gushing head injuries that had been made by an ax,
which had been left in the bathroom. No razor was used this time.
Zanker alerted the police and both victims were taken to the hospital.
They would both later again, consciousness.
There were a lot of similarities between this attack and the Magio murders.
In both cases, the intruder ambushed, a sleeping couple in their bedroom.
He used an ax that he found inside the house. Since he gained entry,
by knocking out a panel in the door,
the police were still reluctant to call both attacks the work of the same
madman.
So instead they investigated it as an individual robbery and looked for suspects
with a connection to Baumer. Initially John Z anchor was treated as a suspect,
but other than the fact that he found the bodies,
that was nothing to suggest that he was the culprit.
Then police shifted their attention to Aman names. Louis Uber con,
who had recently started working in Baum store like anchor.
He was more a suspect of convenience rather than somebody with actual evidence
against him. His alibi was a little weak, but that was about it.
But Harriet Lowe insisted that her attacker was not black. So again,
the police began looking for somebody else.
And that was when the case took a rather strange turn.
Harriet Lowe had made a series of unusual statements.
The attack on her had been much more vicious than a Baumer.
She had suffered brain damage and went in and out of delirium. And in fact,
she died seven weeks later from her injuries. In the meantime,
she was reluctant to cooperate with the police or the press,
mainly because she feared the scandal that became front page news.
When it was discovered that she was not married to the gross,
but she was as mistres, but even more bizarrely,
she became increasingly convinced that it was Baumer himself who attacked her.
The police warmed up to this idea. They found letters in Baum's home,
in different languages in Yiddish and German and Russian.
So they flirted with the idea. The whole gross routine was an act.
And he was in fact, German spy, part of a secret espionage ring.
And that he Harriet Lowe when she discovered his true identity.
She agreed with this conclusion, but again,
Harriet Lowe was delirious and lingering on the brink of death.
When she finally did die,
police arrested Lewis Baumer on a murder charge and he was imprisoned for nine
months awaiting trial before a sensible jury acquitted him after 10 minutes of
deliberation in May, 1919. Now we return to our murder mystery in a moment.
But first here's a word from today's video sponsor Squarespace.
Now more than ever, people are getting creative with their time.
They're reaching into their savings account to start a new business or launch a
blog, something like that. And with Squarespace,
the web really is your Squarespace is an incredible tool to fashion a website
into whatever you want it to be. Maybe old looking to get in and out quick,
without thinking too much about the site and its design,
well use one of their beautiful templates and that will be a perfect solution.
Or maybe you're more of a hands on person you want to tinker with that design.
You've got a lot of opinions about what exactly it should look like. Well,
Squarespace is fully customizable, so you can tinker all you want.
Once you're done setting up your website,
there are a ton of extra features that Squarespace provides so that your website
can thrive. Email campaigns, patronage, portals, social integrations, member,
any areas, analytics, commercial options, 24 7 customer support,
really everything you need is in there.
So when you are ready to get started on the next project of yours, big or small,
if it involves the website, it's gotta be with Squarespace right now,
you can just go to squarespace.com for a free trial.
And when you're ready to launch, go to
squarespace.com/biographics and you'll save 10% off your first purchase of a
website or a domain. And let's get back to the a man.
There had been two attack so far resulting in three deaths. And in each case,
the police tried to charge someone tied to the victims.
They had not connected the two assaults yet, at least not publicly.
It was after the third that they admitted that new Orleans might have an ax
wielding Madden on the loose. It happens on August the fifth,
1918 when 28 year old Anna Schneider was attacked in her bedroom.
Late in the evening,
the woman was eight months pregnant and woke during the night to see a shadowy
figure looming over her. He began hitting her in the head with an object.
Some sources reported that it was an ax while others said that it was a lamp
from a bedside table. Her husband,
ed Schneider arrived home from work after midnight found his wife and took her
to the hospital.
Pascal scar had been cut open and she was missing multiple teeth.
But Mrs. Schneider had not only survived the attack,
but went on to deliver a baby a few days in later, unfortunately for the police,
she did not become their key witness. They were hoping for.
And a Schneider couldn't remember anything about her attacker and was unable to
provide a description. Clearly,
the Axman was unhappy with the results of this latest hit because this time he
only waited five days before striking again on August the 10th,
the killer attacked Joseph Ram Romano,
an elderly man who lived with his two nieces on that morning.
Two young women woken up by the commotion and entered their uncle's room.
To see that the man had received a heavy ax blow to the head.
He remains conscious until the ambulance arrived,
but Joseph Romano died a couple of days later.
This attack shed a lot more similarities to the first two than the one at the
Schneider house. For starters, the intru to target an Italian proprietor. Again,
Joseph Ram Romano had a barbershop in the neighborhood.
He definitely used an ax this time,
which he dumped in a backyard and he gained entry to the house by knocking out a
panel. Now there was no way to avoid a panic anymore.
New Orleans knew that it had a killer in its MIS and the city fell into chaos.
As police began receiving countless reports of people,
seeing ax men in their neighborhoods and parents started staying away,
can turn to guard their families while they slept a few people even reported
finding discarded AEs in their backyards in the morning,
either as the result of pranks or as a sign that they almost received a visit
from the ax man,
all the fear and detention seemed to satiate the madman because he waited for
eight months before killing again
For his next attack. The Aman decided to,
to venture off the beaten path and instead of striking in new Orleans, again,
he crossed the Mississippi river into gret Louisiana and committed his most
heinous assault. He targeted an entire family of Italian immigrants,
the father Charles Cordelia, who worked as a grower,
the mother Rosies their two year old daughter, Mary.
It happens on the night of March the 10th, 1919.
The scene was the same as the rest.
A panel had been chiseled outta the back door and a bloody AXS was found left in
the yard. The KME family was discovered by their neighbors,
the Jordans who responded to their screams,
both Charles and Rosie had sustained bloody head wound and skull fractures,
but they were taken to the hospital and survived the attack. Unfortunately,
the young Mary died from a blow to the back of her head,
despite the clear similarities in the crimes. Police,
once again were looking to arrest someone with ties to the court,
Melia family instead of a serial killer.
And they found an even more unexpected suspect than Lewis Sumer.
The alleged Germans by I two suspects. In fact,
yo Orlando and Frank Jordano the father and the son who responded to the
family's call for help for reasons known only to her Rosie cor Melia claims that
Joos were the ones who attacked them and killed her daughter.
There was a mild motive.
The GIS were also grosses in direct competition with Charles caught Melia Rin
that coral in the past, however,
was almost entirely on Rosie's testimony that the father and some were arrested
and quickly convicted.
Iland Drano was sentenced to life in prison while his son was given the death
penalty, GRE police made no attempt to connect their case to the Axman murders.
Insisting that that was something which was happening in new Orleans's and did
not concern them.
There were several reasons why Theranos were not the attackers apart from a
complete lack of the starters, Yano JDAO was almost 70 years old.
He was too weak and frail to commit the crimes.
Frank JDAO would've been strong enough to do it,
but at six feet and over 200 pounds,
he was too big to fit through the door panel that had been removed.
But the most obvious sign of their innocence was the fact that Charles Corlia
did not back up his wife's story.
But first he said that he had no recollection of the attack,
but later became convinced that his wife was lying.
Eventually Rosie KLIA did admit the lie.
The father and son were acquitted of the crimes.
But the true story behind this bizarre event is still unclear as there are too
many versions out there.
Some say that Rosie KLIA tried to frame the Drano is out of jealousy. In spite,
her doctor believed it was because of the trauma and brain damage.
She had suffered in the attack.
Rosie herself said that she had been coerced into doing it by Graner police.
And that later the district attorney threatened her with perjury charge and
prison time. If she recanted, eventually she decided to come clean anyway.
After St. Joseph appeared to her in her dream and encouraged her to confess,
Despite all the evidence of the quarter Melia case,
the most surprising aspect of the whole crime spree occurred a few days after
the attack.
When the New York times PCA U received a letter purported to be from the ax man
himself, we've already mentioned part of it.
It contains the kind of stuff you would expect from a deranged killer.
He talked about how big and scary you was,
how incompetent the police were and how the entire city was a mercy.
But the ending of the letter came with a very strange demand.
Here is what it said now to be exact at 12, 15 earthly time.
On next Tuesday night, I'm going to pass over new Orleans in my infinite mercy.
I am going to make a little proposition to you people here it is.
I'm very fond of jazz music.
And I swear by all the devils in the nether regions that every person should be
spared in, whose home a jazz band is in full swing.
At the time that I have just mentioned, if everyone has a jazz band going well,
then so much the better for you people. One thing is certain,
and that is some of you,
people who do not jazz it out on that specific tee Tuesday night,
if there be any, we'll get the ax well,
as I'm cold and crave the warmth of my native guitarists. And it is about time.
I leave your earthly home. I will cease my discourse,
hoping that thou will publish this, that it may go well with the,
I have been am and will be the worst spirit that ever existed either. In fact,
or realm of fan to see the ax man, his instructions were pretty clear.
The letter was published on March the 13th and the date of the big party
would've been March the 19th.
What really happened on that night is somewhat murky today after many repeated
and exaggerated retellings. However,
the story goes that the entire city of new Orleans jazzed it out per the ax
man's demands, dance halls and jazz abs were filled to capacity.
Pianos and record players could be heard playing in people's homes.
One local musician named Joseph, John Dilla,
even composed a piece to commemorate the event,
which he titled the mysterious ax. Man's jazz don't scare me, Papa.
Nobody was killed that night.
Some say that the ax man walked the streets of new Orleans all night,
delighted to see that he got an entire city to do his others are skeptical that
the letter even came from the killer.
After all it didn't contain any details or identifies that only the ax man would
know if it was a hoax.
Then it ended up making the killer far more notorious than the murders
themselves.
At least three more attacks occurred that year,
which are usually attributed the Agman a fourth one might have been averted.
When a man named William Carson scared away and intruder by firing a few shots
in his direction. The three targets were Steve Boer, Sarah lawman,
and Mike Pepitone Boker and lawman were both attacked,
but managed to make enough noise,
to alert the neighbors and prompt their assailant, a flee.
They both recovered from their injuries.
Although neither one could provide any useful clues as to the identity of a
attacker. Mike pone story is a bit more uncertain.
His wife found him at around 1:00 AM. He was still alive. Although unconscious,
after being struck in the head, numerous times, the murder weapon was unclear.
It wasn't an ax maybe because the attacker cannot find one and it could have
been an iron bar of some kind or a large bolt.
Mike Pepitone died in the hospital after a few hours and many consider him to be
the ax man, SI X and final victim.
Although others have asserted that his attack may have been mob related and not
committed by the serial killer either way. After 1919,
the ax man of new Orleans disappeared and was never heard from again,
the same three possibilities were put forward.
As in any crime spree that stopped suddenly the killer died.
He moved away or he was imprisoned for unrelated offenses.
His identity has never been established.
The police certainly tried to charge plenty of people for the crimes.
Andrew Mao Lewis, Baumer, Lewison, Orlando, and Frank Drano.
But these were more about wanting to clear the murders at any cast,
by finding someone who fit the bill rather than actually following the evidence.
But there is one more notable name to mention one,
which has become a popular suspect among crime busts, Joseph mum or mum.
He wasn't on the police's radar, but in December, 1921,
he was gunned down on the streets of Los Angeles. His killer was ster Paone.
The widow of Mike Pepitone purported to be the ax man's final.
When being interrogated by the police,
she claims that he was the man responsible for her husband's death.
Ever since then,
Joseph mum has been put forward as a likely candidate for being the AXS man.
But the criminal records and historical documents, don't back up this claim,
according to surviving newspaper articles. From that time,
Esther did shoot this man who went by several names,
but it was because she thought he was to the disappearance of her second
husband. And not her first after Mike pepperoni's murder,
she moved away and married a man named Angelo, a Baro who went missing,
but due to numerous retellings and inaccurate reporting from the media,
the story changed that she was avenging the death of Mike pone.
And consequently mum became suspected to being the Axman.
It appears that he has simply another entry in a pretty long line of dubious
suspects with confusing stories,
but that in and of itself has a unique layer to this killing spreet makes the
Axman of new Orleans stand out as one of the most mysterious and distinctive
killers in the animals of crime. So I really hope you found the video.
Interesting. If you did, please do hit that thumbs up bottom below.
Don't forget a subscribe.
Please do check out a fantastic sponsor Squarespace and thank you for watching.